Add gprofiler (#199)
nf-core/differentialabundance: docs/usage.md

There is also a [Shiny server application](https://posit.co/download/shiny-server/), which you can install on your own infrastruture and use to host applications yourself.

> ## Pathway enrichment analysis

Reviewer: Could you include GSEA here? At least mention it as an option/ add a subheading so that I can go back and fill it in (I didn't realise I hadn't documented that at all).

Author: Will do!

There is also a [Shiny server application](https://posit.co/download/shiny-server/), which you can install on your own infrastruture and use to host applications yourself.

## Gene set enrichment analysis

Currently, two tools can be used to do gene set enrichment analysis.

> ### g:Profiler

Author: Nope, the tool itself is called [g:Profiler](https://academic.oup.com/nar/article/47/W1/W191/5486750); I decided to add the name of the tool itself instead of the R package gprofiler2. Should I change that?

I went for an alphabetic ordering, but sure, will change!

[GSEA](https://www.gsea-msigdb.org/gsea/index.jsp) tests for differential genes from within a user-provided set of genes; this requires a GMT or GMX file. The following example shows how to enable this:

```bash
--gsea_run true \
--gene_sets_files gene_sets.gmt
```

### g:Profiler

> The [gprofiler2](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/gprofiler2/vignettes/gprofiler2.html) package can be used to test which pathways are enriched for genes that have been determined to be differentially expressed; it is an R interface for the g:Profiler webtool. In the simplest form, this feature can be enabled with the parameters from the following example:

Reviewer: > test which pathways are enriched for genes that have been determined to be differentially expressed

Is this true? Or is it rather looking for which pathways are enriched in the set of differential genes relative to the background? Not quite the same thing.

Author: Umm, I'm not sure I understand. I was meaning that gprofiler searches for enrichment of pathways with DE genes as it only receives those (it is given the filtered matrix, not the full results from DESeq2/limma).

Reviewer: So, your wording suggests that you start with a gene set and try to understand whether there are more differentially expressed genes that you would expect by chance. I suspect that's not what's happening.

Rather, we take the differentially expressed gene list, and look to see if there are more members of each gene set than we would expect by chance, relative to the background. The background contains all the genes passed to d/e, so it effectively does have the full results from d/e (though all it knows is that they are not significant).

Author: Aah, okay, maybe I formulated that badly. I wanted to indicate that only those genes are piped into the enrichment analysis that DESeq/limma deemed differential. Maybe something like this instead?

`The [gprofiler2](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/gprofiler2/vignettes/gprofiler2.html) package can be used to test which pathways are enriched for genes that the DESeq2/limma modules determined to be differentially expressed; it is an R interface for the g:Profiler webtool.`

Reviewer: That has the same ambiguity to me. How about something like:

The [gprofiler2](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/gprofiler2/vignettes/gprofiler2.html) package can be used to test which pathways are enriched in the set of differential genes produced by the the DESeq2 or limma modules.  It is an R interface for the g:Profiler webtool.

Author: That sounds good, thanks!

```bash
--gprofiler2_run true \
--gprofiler2_organism mmusculus
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a note on the background, how important that is, that 'auto' is the default and what that means?

Author: Ah good point!

> Either a token from a previous g:profiler run, a custom GMT file or the organism (mmusculus for Mus musculus, hsapiens for Homo sapiens etc.) is required. Check the [pipeline webpage](https://nf-co.re/differentialabundance/1.2.0/parameters#gprofiler2) for the parameters for this step. Also, by default the analysis will be run with a background list of genes that passed the abundance filter (i.e. those genes that actually had some expression); see for example https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-015-0761-7 for why this is advisable. You can provide your own background list with `--gprofiler2_background_file background.txt`; alternatively, if you want to not use any background, set this: `--gprofiler2_background_file false`.

Author: So I did set the original priorities intentionally (first the specific/reproducible options token and custom GMT, then the organism which just queries whichever database versions are the current ones). But update the module to put the GMT file as last instance.

> Either a token from a previous g:profiler run, a custom GMT file or the organism (mmusculus for Mus musculus, hsapiens for Homo sapiens etc.) is required. Check the [pipeline webpage](https://nf-co.re/differentialabundance/1.2.0/parameters#gprofiler2) for the parameters for this step. Also, by default the analysis will be run with a background list of genes that passed the abundance filter (i.e. those genes that actually had some expression); see for example https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-015-0761-7 for why this is advisable. You can provide your own background list with `--gprofiler2_background_file background.txt`; alternatively, if you want to not use any background, set this: `--gprofiler2_background_file false`.

Author: Done. I had to do some fiddling to keep the error message if multiple GMT files are provided. I'll some time update the module again so that the pipeline can be run with multiple GMT files like GSEA

> Either a `--gprofiler2_token` from a previous g:profiler run, the `--gprofiler2_organism` (mmusculus for Mus musculus, hsapiens for Homo sapiens etc.) or a custom `--gene_sets_files` GMT file is required; if multiple options are provided, will prioritize token, then organism, then GMT file. Check the [pipeline webpage](https://nf-co.re/differentialabundance/1.2.0/parameters#gprofiler2) for the parameters for this step. Also, by default the analysis will be run with a background list of genes that passed the abundance filter (i.e. those genes that actually had some expression); see for example https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-015-0761-7 for why this is advisable. You can provide your own background list with `--gprofiler2_background_file background.txt`; alternatively, if you want to not use any background, set this: `--gprofiler2_background_file false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If gene sets have been specified to the workflow via `--gene_sets_files` these are used by default. Specifying  `--gprofiler2_organism` (mmusculus for Mus musculus, hsapiens for Homo sapiens etc.) will override those gene sets with g:profiler's own for the relevant species. `--gprofiler2_token` will override both options and use gene sets from a previous g:profiler run.  

By default the analysis will be run with a background list of genes that passed the abundance filter (i.e. those genes that actually had some expression); see for example https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-015-0761-7 for why this is advisable. You can provide your own background list with `--gprofiler2_background_file background.txt`or if you want to not use any background, set `--gprofiler2_background_file false`.

Check the [pipeline webpage](https://nf-co.re/differentialabundance/parameters#gprofiler2) for a full listing of the relevant parameters. 
```

Simplifying suggestion, plus we shouldn't point to a specific version of the webpage (we'd forget to update it on release).

Author: Oh yes, good point!
